shared_config/parted.md, before:


#### Partition Alignment with Parted

This is important, because it's a problem I have faced many times in the past and ignored.

Today I will overcome my ignorance and learn how it works.

##### General Best Practice

An ubuntu article states that advanced format disks (eg. modern hardware) using a space of 2048 (multiple of 8) for sector sizes with an initial offset of 1 MiB is best practice.


##### A More Comprehensive Answer

You can check disk information in `/sys/block/` and get actual details for performing manual calculations (again for advanced disks the outcome is pretty standard).

These are the four files to check:

- `/sys/block/sdb/queue/optimal_io_size`
- `/sys/block/sdb/queue/minimum_io_size`
- `/sys/block/sdb/alignment_offset`
- `/sys/block/sdb/queue/physical_block_size`

If the optimal IO size is 0, then you fallback to the 1MiB standard, otherwise you want to perform special calculations:

- Initial Disk Start is: (Optimal IO Size + Alignment Offset) / Physical Block Size
- Subsequent values can be listed with `s` (for sectors) and are multiplied by the physical block size, retaining an optimal relationship

_Remember that the initial 1MiB offset must be subtracted from the `End` value to get an accurate size.  For example if I use a start of `1MiB` and an end of `256MiB` I actually end up with a `255MiB` partition size._

**What about all subsequent partitions?**

Simply set the start point to the last end point.

To save yourself time calculating the prior disks size, simply check the end value after setting `unit MiB`.


##### My Test Case

My current test case is Parallels Desktop, where the hardware is virtualized, so it's not a great example of real situations, but a very common one I believe for modern computing.

I found that both my Alignment Offset and Optimal IO Size were 0, so I used the 1MiB offset standard and went with the multiples of 8 for the final values.  My physical and Minimum IO sizes were 4096 (4KiB I believe).

I thus created my partitions using:

- `mkpart primary fat32 1MiB 257MiB`
- `mkpart primary ext4 257MiB 513MiB`
- `mkpart primary ext2 513MiB 100%`

The first two partitions are a UEFI partition for the bootloader, and an Ext4 `/boot` partition.  The initial 1MiB starting point leaves me with negative 1 MiB in my final sizes, hence the odd numbers for subsequent start and end points.  _This isn't a big deal really, but I like even partition sizes._

I followed these commands up with the finishing touches:

- `set 1 boot on`
- `set 3 lvm on`


##### References

- [HP Article](http://h10025.www1.hp.com/ewfrf/wc/document?cc=uk&lc=en&dlc=en&docname=c03479326)
- [Independent Tutorial](http://rainbow.chard.org/2013/01/30/how-to-align-partitions-for-best-performance-using-parted/)
- [Ubuntu Summary](http://askubuntu.com/questions/201164/proper-alignment-of-partitions-on-an-advanced-format-hdd-using-parted)
- [Awesome Picture Description](http://superuser.com/questions/291978/western-digital-green-drive-from-512-byte-sectors-jumpered-to-4k-byte-sectors/291992#291992)

Commit message:

updated parted documentation to include my preferred partition schema.

shared_config/parted.md, after:


# partition alignment with parted

This is important, because it's a problem I have faced many times in the past and ignored.

Today I will overcome my ignorance and learn how it works.

## general best practice

An ubuntu article states that advanced format disks (eg. modern hardware) using a space of 2048 (multiple of 8) for sector sizes with an initial offset of 1 MiB is best practice.


### more comprehensive answer

You can check disk information in `/sys/block/` and get actual details for performing manual calculations (again for advanced disks the outcome is pretty standard).

These are the four files to check:

- `/sys/block/sdb/queue/optimal_io_size`
- `/sys/block/sdb/queue/minimum_io_size`
- `/sys/block/sdb/alignment_offset`
- `/sys/block/sdb/queue/physical_block_size`

If the optimal IO size is 0, then you fallback to the 1MiB standard, otherwise you want to perform special calculations:

- Initial Disk Start is: (Optimal IO Size + Alignment Offset) / Physical Block Size
- Subsequent values can be listed with `s` (for sectors) and are multiplied by the physical block size, retaining an optimal relationship

_Remember that the initial 1MiB offset must be subtracted from the `End` value to get an accurate size.  For example if I use a start of `1MiB` and an end of `256MiB` I actually end up with a `255MiB` partition size._

**What about all subsequent partitions?**

Simply set the start point to the last end point.

To save yourself time calculating the prior disks size, simply check the end value after setting `unit MiB`.


### my test case

My current test case is Parallels Desktop, where the hardware is virtualized, so it's not a great example of real situations, but a very common one I believe for modern computing.

I found that both my Alignment Offset and Optimal IO Size were 0, so I used the 1MiB offset standard and went with the multiples of 8 for the final values.  My physical and Minimum IO sizes were 4096 (4KiB I believe).

I thus created my partitions using:

- `mkpart primary fat32 1MiB 257MiB`
- `mkpart primary ext4 257MiB 513MiB`
- `mkpart primary ext2 513MiB 100%`

The first two partitions are a UEFI partition for the bootloader, and an Ext4 `/boot` partition.  The initial 1MiB starting point leaves me with negative 1 MiB in my final sizes, hence the odd numbers for subsequent start and end points.  _This isn't a big deal really, but I like even partition sizes._

I followed these commands up with the finishing touches:

- `set 1 boot on`
- `set 3 lvm on`


## preferred partitioning schema

I use this same schema in almost all linux platforms.

Partitions:

- efi (512M)
- /boot (512M, noatime)
- lvm (remainder)
    - swap (4G)
    - /tmp (2G, relatime)
    - /var/log (2G, noexec)
    - /root (40G, noatime)
    - /home (remainder, noatime)

Separated log and tmp partitions eliminate the change of some crazy log or tmp script from taking down my system.  Additionally I throw noexec on logs since that shouldn't happen.  It may actually be wiser to mount /tmp via tmpfs (and some systems may override the partition with that).


# references

- [HP Article](http://h10025.www1.hp.com/ewfrf/wc/document?cc=uk&lc=en&dlc=en&docname=c03479326)
- [Independent Tutorial](http://rainbow.chard.org/2013/01/30/how-to-align-partitions-for-best-performance-using-parted/)
- [Ubuntu Summary](http://askubuntu.com/questions/201164/proper-alignment-of-partitions-on-an-advanced-format-hdd-using-parted)
- [Awesome Picture Description](http://superuser.com/questions/291978/western-digital-green-drive-from-512-byte-sectors-jumpered-to-4k-byte-sectors/291992#291992)
